# SMOTE
Syntheitc Minority Over-sampling Technique

SMOTE: Syntheitc Minority Over-Sampling Technique.

Dealing with imbalanced datasets is a significant problem in Machine Learning as samples from one class are significantly high in number than the samples from another class, thus leading to a heavily biased model towards the dominant class. Real world examples of such scenarios include, physiological data of cancer tumor vs non-cancer tumor, weather data of storm vs non-storm etc. In this problem setting, metrics like accuracy would be significantly high even for a bad model and do not provide
an accurate estimate of the model performance. In this project, we will be dealing with overcoming such scenario by artificially generating samples of the less frequent class.

Dependencies:

Compiler used: Python 3.6
Operating System: Windows
Libraries :
	1. numpy
	2. pandas
	3. scikit.learn
	4. csv
	5. scipy
	6. sklearn
	7. matplotlib

Project Structure:
	\Classifier:
		\C45.py - Contains code for implementing base classifier to train datasets, and plots ROC curves.
		\NaiveBayes.py - Contains code for implementing classifier by varying weights of priors of minority samples.
	\RandomUnderSampling
		\UnderSampling.py - Contains code for implementing random under-sampling with replacement for majority samples.
	\SMOTE
		\SMOTE.py - Contains code for implementing SMOTE.
	\main.py - Main function that takes in 3 different datasets and performs SMOTE, Undersampling and a combination of both and plots ROC curves.
	\ForestCover.csv - Forest Cover Dataset
	\Mammography.csv - Mammography Dataset
	\phoneme.csv - Phoneme Dataset
	\ROCValue.txt - Temp file to store AUC values of each classifier.
	\Syntheitc_Data.csv - Temp file that contains synthetic samples generated by SMOTE.
	\Syntheitc_Data.txt - Temp file that contains combination of SMOTE and undersampled data. (Needs to be cleared after each iteration!!)
	\Undersampling.csv - Final dataset containing under-sampled data of the original dataset.
	\UndersamplingSmote.csv - Final dataset containing combination of under-sampling and SMOTE data of the original dataset.

Instructions to run the code:

1. Open main.py
2. dataFile1, dataFile2, dataFile3 corresponds to dataset Forest Cover, Mammography and Phoneme respectively.
   They have corresponding classColumnNumber, minorClassValue and numattr (Total number of attributes).
3. Pass the corresponding values of the above parameters to the function performSampling().
4. This will begin running in the following order:
    1. Undersampling with replacement.
    2. Undersampling and SMOTE combination.
    3. Classification of the modified database in the underlying classifier and plot ROC graphs.
